So I just showed you how to
break up a bunch of those tasks.
But at this point ansible
isn't that useful, right?
A lot of you are probably looking
at it going yeah, that's okay.
Maybe I wanna use my own custom script.
I don't have to learn YAML I don't
have to mess with all this stuff.
Yeah, it looks a little convenient
those tags great and all but
perhaps it's not for me,
maybe it's a little too complicated.
Well, hold on,
just hold on there for a second.
Okay, can we just put a pin in it SSH?
Remember I brought this up intentionally.
I did say SSH was a part of getting
your computer up and running.
And this part is just pretty awful, right?
And so SSH keys,
they're the worst thing ever.
They're the best thing ever.
They allow you to have really
easy access onto systems.
But you either have to generate a new
one every time you get a computer and
then go to GitHub.
Go to stash, go to Bitbucket.
Go to wherever you have to go get lab and
re put them all in and
then wherever else you have
to go really annoying.
Well Ansible comes with
something called Ansible vault.
Now this thing is pretty darn awesome.
So I'm gonna give you
a little quick example.
Okay, so let's come in here.
Let's create a file, alright.
And let's call this one.
Wow I already have a test
file what's in here?
My goodness, hello front end masters.
Look at this we already have a test file,
how beautiful is this?
So I'm gonna take this thing down and
I'm gonna run Ansible.
Ansible vault and then I'm gonna encrypt
and I'm gonna choose test file, right?
It's gonna say hey give me a password.
So I'm gonna type in a super-secret
password and then I'm gonna do it again.
And that's that.
It's gonna say encryption successful.
So let's cut out the task
file there we go.
Now this is what the test file looks like,
I could commit this to a public repo,
AES 256 is said to be
likely quantum secure.
So at least for the next while you're
gonna be safe using this type of
encryption It seems pretty good.
And you can store it on public repose.
There you go It's out there,
everything's fine.
And if I wanted to get out the value,
I could do Ansible vault, decrypt, and
then oop, don't wanna put that one
out there and then do test file.
And I could decrypt the test file,
put in my super secret password.
And now when I cut out my test file,
what do I see?
Hello, front end masters.
So it's a two way encryption.
That works really nicely, but
you're probably asking yourself, okay,
that's neat.
And now I don't have to store my SSH
keys in my email or on a private server,
I can actually do that.
But still, that's kind of manual right?
I'd have to decrypt them.
Move them into the correct location.
I don't wanna do that, right?
I don't wanna do I don't wanna
be a part of any of that.
You're right.
You don't wanna do that.
And you don't have to do that.
So I've included the code, but
I'm not gonna kind of I'm only gonna
just lightly go over the code.
Cuz it's really, there's not,
I looked it up on the internet,
I cut I pasted it,
it worked first try, it was beautiful.
I defined a couple vars, where my current
SSH key is, where I want to install it.
Some basic information about it like hey,
I want to create a directory with
the correct permissions safe 700 right?
I want to be able to copy my
source to my destination.
I've also tagged it with DOT files and
SSH.
So if I install my DOT files, I also
need to install these tasks as well.
I need to have my SSH keys up and running
for my DOT files, to be properly running.
I do a bunch of this other stuff.
Set my authorized key so
that it works so I can have both.
So I'm using it from here on out.
If I do a get operation,
it's gonna be ensured to be working.
And of course I can do
something that looks like this.
I can go and
I can clone down a public repo and
then update my sub modules
which are private.
And it will use my SSH key that
I just got done decrypting.
So let me show you kind
of what that looks like.
Here's effectively the exact
thing we will be executing.
So I'm gonna go like this,
I'm gonna rerun a new Docker and
I'm gonna just use my actual my
actual ansible thing I've been using.
So here's my Ansible.
So I'm gonna go Ansible playbook and
I'm gonna run dot files.
That's my tag for all my dot files.
Cause I want things to be up and
running and
then I'm gonna also do ask,
vault pass, right.
And then on top of that,
I'm gonna just specify local ynl vault.
Now I'm going to put in my very secret
passcode don't look at it too much.
There we go.
And there we go.
It's gonna go through it's gonna ensure
that ssh is installed correctly.
It's gonna go through
install My Zsh all that.
Make sure vim plug is there,
it's gonna install that stows there,
it's gonna clone down
my dog file repository.
Not only that, but it's gonna
recursively get everything else with it.
It's gonna install my dog files,
you don't know what to do as yet.
Then it's gonna get a bunch of my personal
projects that I need, and boom, it's done.
Now I'm gonna open up nvm it's gonna have
some errors because I've yet to figure out
this one, how to make this thing work but
then I just got to go plug install.
And once it goes through and
does all of this.
I blah blah blah blah blah.
There we go.
I'll look how beautiful that
is everything is wonderful.
There we go.
And I can quit, quit when I reopen up
then it's now in the way I would like it
all my keyboard shortcuts work.
I can do everything that I wanted to
do everything just works as is because
now my vins up and running and
all my dot files have been there and
they are private with an SSH key.
Now for me, this was a huge thing
that made me really excited.
Cuz I absolutely just hated how
I've handled SSH keys in the past.
This is awesome.
Now it just works.
And I can have them stored in a place
where I'm not going to lose them, right?
And that's a big thing for me is that I
don't want to have to regenerate them and
I don't wanna lose them.
And I don't want them just on
someplace that can get hacked.
I want them secure.
And I feel like this was one of the best
solutions I've seen out there where I can
get a system up and running,
even with those private keys so quick.
And I feel like this is one of the biggest
selling points of Ansible, but
I wanna kind of think about it for
a second.
Besides for SSH keys what else
could we store with Ansible vault?
Well, I feel like everybody here probably
knows what this symbol is right?
How many of you are locked out of binance
right now because you have lost your
password, and you don't have your
backup codes for binance right?
My goodness you can't get
your cryptocurrencies.
You're millions of dogecoin just sitting
there being wasted away right now.
It's because you don't have a way to
store your private information easily.
So something I've been doing is I've
actually been going through my oauth codes
and here we go.
Here's my discord backup codes right?
All right, so I get locked out of this
code, I have my backup codes already here
ready to rock,
I don't even have to worry about it.
For me this was just like a huge thing.
Cuz this its gonna save me 100 folder.
And so now not only do I have all
my installation and everything,
I also have all the keys to
the kingdom in case things break.
In case I lose my phone, all that I
just have to get to a computer and
have Ansible installed and
I can get the backup codes back out.
For me this was just awesome.
For me,
this is just like such a selling point.
That's why this talk I felt like this
section went from like the most boring
section to the most awesome section
because it's just like, I've been screwed
by this so many times in my lifetime and,
I don't have to have it anymore.
And so for me that was awesome.
And so the next question you're probably
asking is how did you just dot file
that easy?
All of your dot files and
all those locations?
That had to be pretty hard, right.
No, it's not all that bad.
Let's keep on going with this computer.
Now remember section one,
I've always labeled it as the 0 to 60.
The section one part of this talk,
it's a bit more meaty and
it doesn't have as many flashy items.
But these are things that
are just gonna save you so
much dang time when you need it.
If you have a computer at home and at
work, you can keep them in sync so easily.
We have a question.
>> Several people asking if you
store this in your public GitHub or
where you can store it?
>> So when you have something
vaulted like I said Aes 256
is considered potentially Aes
256 is it quantum secure.
You always got to be careful because that
they believed is to be quantum resistant.
But so there is some risk in the sense
that if we make huge leaps and
bounds over the next couple years in
quantum technology your public repos with
these encrypted keys could theoretically
be decrypted at some rate that is
achievable within the lifetime, right?
So that is, there is danger to it but
if you store these keys vaulted if
you aren't, if they're not vaulted,
I mean you're just storing
your RSA key publicly, right?
That's your fault.
Not my fault, but you should be safe
to do that I know people that store
their stuff publicly,
I store my stuff publicly.
Just make sure you have a password
that's good enough strong enough,
that you're not gonna actually goof it up.
Right, that's the big thing.
But ultimately in the end,
you need to choose your own risk, right?
I wouldn't necessarily do it if
you I mean, if you feel scared,
you probably maybe you shouldn't do it,
you can do it at least on a private repo.
But nonetheless, at least know
that AS is quantum resistant,
you can't break it with
standard machinery.
So it's fairly safe.
People we use this for
security pretty regularly and
a lot of companies rely
on this security now.
I obviously make mine public,
because I just simply don't I want to be
able to start a computer with nothing.
And so I just make everything public,
everything vaulted.
So you can see all my
vaulted items out there.
Now if someone somehow got my pass code,
then yeah, it would be broken, but
there's always a point of failure.
It's just where's that point of failure?